PROJECT CHARTERProject ID #<Project Name>Version Date3.0Standard Header: (Copy from CoO or start filling this section)Customer name:Customer UKProject name:<Project Name>Sector:CTISub-Sector:TradeteamGeographical scope:UKStart date:July 2017Risk levelOpportunity Risk Assessment I:Low (20) 21/11/15Opportunity Risk Assessment II:Low (14) 25/1/16Opportunity Risk Assessment III:Data levelData Confidence Index I:Silver 21/11/15Data Confidence Index II:Version Author:Connexions/Sales Force Ref.:ReferenceBCA Ref.:BCA Approval Level:6Contract Ref.:For renewalsProject Key ContactsName, Location, Contact DetailsCustomer:Project Sponsor:Project Owner: Project Manager:Executive Summary/Project Overview: (Copy from CoO or a brief description of situation, need for project & project benefits)This opportunity consists of a 1+10 year contract to provide warehouse and distribution services to Customer UK’s ‘on trade’ business.  There is an initial 9 month transitional period from July 2017, with the full 10 year contract commencing from 2 April 2018.	For clarity, the drinks business is split into ‘on trade’ and ‘off trade’:  The ‘on trade’ is represented by the distribution of drinks to typically pubs, restaurants and clubs on dray vehicles.  Product is split into three broad categories; kegs, cases and single bottles.The ‘off trade’ is the distribution of drinks to Supermarkets and other major retailers, and wholesalers.  This mode of distribution is synonymous with FMCG distribution of palletised product into Retailer/Wholesaler DC’s.The Customer “on-trade’ business services its own customer base (known as ‘Free On-Trade’) plus a number of ‘porterage’ customers.  Porterage customers are typically managed pubs for which Customer provide distribution services.This opportunity is limited to Customer’s ‘Free On-Trade’ plus one long-term porterage customerDSC’s Tradeteam will provide warehousing (NDC and at regional depots) and distribution services to Customer.  In addition Tradeteam will provide stock logistics and customer services on behalf of Customer.  All stock will be held either nationally or regionally based on rates of sale, with slower moving stock residing at the NDC in Stretton.  Stock is trunked to the regional depots on a daily basis based on orders received, consolidated with locally held stock at the depot to fulfil customer specific orders.  The operational and IT solutions are no different to the current operating practices today within Tradeteam; this ensures operational surety and economies of scale. DSC’s Tradeteam will also provide stock logistics services which will ensure stock availability aligned to Customer’s forecasted demand.  The stock logistics team will order and place stock across the network to optimise the cost to serve and alignment to the prevailing storage constraints across the network.  Stock logistics ensures DSC is in control of stock placement to maximise the requirements of all customers and prevents customers placing stock in the network which may have a negative impact on service and/or cost.  Stock logistics is a core competence within Tradeteam.  Stock logistics does not include stock ownership or liability associated with stock obsolescence (provided stock availability is aligned to forecasting).Project Scope & Deliverables: (Copy from CoO or describe in detail where, when and how the services will be provided and what are the tangible and non-tangible outputs to be produced. Append relevant supporting documentations if available)In ScopeDeliverables1. All secondary warehousing and distribution across England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland is in scope of this opportunity.  a) Take over operations at 3 existing Customer DC’s. (July 2017 – April 2018)o Transfer Real estate to DHLo TUPE 409 FTEb)  Transfer 124 vehicle assets to DHL (April 2018)c) Close 8 existing Customer DC’s (July2017 – April 2018)o Transfer volume into Tradeteam existing DC networko Seek employment opportunities for redundant staffd) Integrate existing Tradeteam customers volume with Customers across Tradeteams redefined DC network (April 2018)2. Inter depot trunking between NDC and a local depot is included in this opportunity.3. Stock logistics and customer services are also included in the scope of this opportunity.  This includes the management of suppliers to ensure efficient inbound flow of product into Tradeteam’s network.e) Integrate Customer’s and Tradeteam’s existing  slow moving products NDC (Mar 2018)f) Expand current interdepot trunking network to accommodate increased volumes (Mar 2018)g) Expand Tradeteam current stock logistics team to cover Customer’s product portfolio. (July 2017)o  Establish forecasting, stock levels and call off rules with Customero Integrate 3rd party supplies with existing 3rd party relationships4. Provision of IT systems is included in this opportunity, limited to DSC’s Aurora system which is the ERP system which underpins the Tradeteam network.h) Agree DILO with Customer (Jan 2017)i) Interface Customers SAP to Tradeteam Aurora systems using DHL Link according to agreed DILO (July 2017)Out of Scope* Primary warehousing and distribution is out of scope.* There is no stock ownership required in this opportunity.* Inbound distribution from suppliers is out of scope, unless where existing distribution arrangements exist with suppliers to Tradeteam today.Assumptions: (Copy from CoO or describe factors that, for planning purposes, are considered to be true, real, or certain without proof or demonstration)The existing DHL Tradeteam network will be utilised for the majority of additional volume, in addition to the existing network we propose to take over three of the currently operated Customer sites.(Gravelly Park, Tingley & Ipswich) and move into a new property in Scotland that gives us adequate capacity. A critical step of the project will be to hold detailed day in the life of (DILO) workshops between Customer and DHL Tradeteam to absolutely understand in detail any nuances between the two networks.  The DHL Implementation Team will map out current processes and agree working methods and required changes and impacts upon transfer to DHL TradeteamDuring the sales stage, Tradeteam walked through the processes around the stock/delivery processes.  This will be covered off in greater detail during the DILO workshopsWe have validated the delivery profile with the Operations Team who has confirmed there is sufficient capacity in the extended network to integrate the indicated incoming volume.  Further due diligence is being carried out to validate numbers of people and assets.  Within the proposal we have the opportunity to flex some delivery days and times, to optimise delivery schedules, however we need to be mindful that circa 40% of the incoming work is “independent on trade customers” who will be reluctant to move away from the back end of the week. In addition our proposal includes the charging of infractions (extra charges) to help drive a positive behaviour. We have particularly focused our operational due diligence on Knowsley, Tinsley and Gravelly Park sites where the volumes are greatest.The larger Warehouse operations will operate 24/5 (Monday to Friday) plus a provision for Saturday by agreement.  The customer’s requirement is predominately a “day 1 for day 3” service offering, with provision to place off day orders in line with a post code matrix & emergency orders as required at extra cost. Emergency orders can only be placed against locally held stock in relation to the delivery post code.  This model is already in place for existing DHL Tradeteam customers.The stock (skus) will be stocked in the network dependant on speed of sale. Fast selling products at delivery sites and slow moving products at Regional distribution centres or National distribution centre. DHL Tradeteam stock logistics department will be responsible for the ordering of stock and also determining where it is stocked in the Network.The DHL Tradeteam Functional Heads have all been involved in the project and have all been included in the scoping and costing of this work including Stock Logistics, Customer Services, IS, Finance, Operations and HR.An overview of the network to support Customer is provided below:? The additional volume will predominately collapse into the current Tradeteam site infrastructure, with the exception of the take on of three of the existing CUK sites and the creation of a new Scotland site.? There are a number of critical actions that need to take place to accommodate the end game solution o Exit of warehousing third party business from the current Tradeteam network (largest being … out of Totton & Exeter)o The movement of customers between sites to create optimum delivery geographies o Creation of new stocking locations at the adopted & new sites (reliance on our existing customers to assist)? The tables below define the business operational volumes associated with this requirement and from which the solution is designed. Included are any assumptions that have been made due to non-availability of information at the point of providing these figures. ? Summary of end game solution ? Analysis of off day orders (Not standard Day 1 – Day 3)  Critical Success Factors: (Copy from CoO or describe the factors to consider to ensure a successful project completion e.g. to include feasibility study or not)Project Objectives: (Complete the following section, ensure SMART - Specific, Measurable, Agreed by all stakeholders, Realistic, Time-framed)Customer Acceptance Criteria/ Completion CriteriaHow Measured?1. Systems Integration readiness by First Cut over date (3 July 2017)* Sign off by both project teams of completeness of project action2. Transfer 3 DC operations with TUPE of all staff by 2nd Cut over Date (variable but starts 7 Sept 2017)* All staff transferred with no loss of service. Measured via contract OTIF kpi.3. All volume transferred to Tradeteam network by Final Cut over date (2 April 2018)* All deliveries managed through Tradeteam network.Project Organization: (Copy from CoO or describe the Project Team org chart and their Roles & Responsibilities by appending the completed Project Resources tool DE02) Project Team/Structure:A core Project Team will be established drawn from DHL and CUK resources. This team will be accountable for the successful delivery of the Project objectives and will be led by a DHL Project Manager.  Roles identified to date are as follows:1. Project Sponsors: 2. Dedicated DHL Project Manager: 3. Dedicated Customer Manager:  4. Dedicated DHL IT Project Manager: 5. Workstream Leads: (as necessary depending on the complexity of the workstream; e.g. Project Owners, Operations, Systems, Human Resources, Real Estate, Transportation, Finance, Customer Services, and Stock Logistics 6. Functional Managers (responsible for providing and assigning resources) and estimated # of resources required in each area:  HR, IT, Finance, Customer services, Property, Customer and Depot Implementation, BAU/Operations, 3rd Party Brands, Stock Management and Load Planning Roles and ResponsibilitiesRoles and responsibilities are defined in the Project Resources tool DE02, dated 160823 Key Milestones: (include dates)CMA authority to progress: 3 July 2017First Cut Over Date :  Systems integration and TUPE of Transferring Employees : 3 July 2017Second Cut Over Date: 7 September 2017 1st Transferred DC moves to closed book operationsFinal Cut Over Date : 2 April 2018 All volume transferred to Tradeteam Network  Project Budget: Customer has agreed to pay an Implementation Planning Fee, by way of contributing the first £2 million towards the project management, transition and implementation costs associated with the transfer of the Logistics Services.There are 2 key elements to the Implementation Planning Fee:1. a planning fee – this relates to activities that can be undertaken pre satisfaction of the CMA Condition; and2. an implementation fee – this relates to activities that will be undertaken post satisfaction of the CMA Condition.Planning FeeThis element is for the provision of resources and activities that are able to be undertaken prior to the satisfaction of the CMA Condition and are required for the timely delivery of the operational solution for the Logistics Services. It covers the time period from the Effective Date to the First Cut Over Date.The Effective Date to the First Cut Over Date (with a budgeted cost to the Supplier of £0.943m)Project team and site planning preparation (£549k):* The provision of business project management resources to govern the plan* An overall operational implementation owner* The provision of operational management support for the Transferring Depots* Operations excellence resources to support the solution design* Resources from the support functions of HR and Finance* Pre transfer HR tasks relating to employment checks and consultationsIT development between the Supplier’s Computer Systems and Customer’s Computer Systems (£394k): * IT systems planning * Interface definition and programmingImplementation Fee - post CMA approvalThis element is for the continued planning and delivery of the implementation plans that are required for the timely delivery of the operational solution for the Logistics Services. It covers the time period from First Cut Over Date to Final Cut Over Date First Cut Over Date to Final Cut Over Date (with a budgeted cost to the Supplier of £2.842m)Project team and site implementation (£1,109k):* The provision of business project management resources to govern the plan* An overall operational implementation owner* The provision of operational management support for the Transferring Depots* Operations excellence resources to support the business transition * Resources from the support functions of HR and Finance* Provision of stock logistics resources to support the transition of the activity from Customer to the SupplierIT development between the Supplier’s Computer Systems and Customer’s Computer Systems (£394k): * IT infrastructure setup* IT integration and testingDepot implementation (£1,039k):* Transition of the Transferring Depots to the Supplier* TUPE transfer of Transferring Employees at the Transferring Depots to the Supplier* Recruitment of new warehouse and transport resources at the Transferring Depots * Training and induction of new and transferring colleagues at the Transferring Depots * Network integration planning resources to plan and implement the physical integration of orders in the Transferring Depots* Recruitment of new warehouse and transport resources at the Depots* Training and induction of new employees at the Depots* Early take on of assets – assess and commission as necessaryNDC site configuration and stock transfer (£300k):* Fit out of the NDC ahead of transition* Transfer of stock Project Management Approach:The project management approach will follow DHL Project Management methodology, DePICT®, and the associated tools defined within that methodology. Project Governance:List to include, but not limited to:1. Formal agreement on the full scope of project services, deliverables and timeline is documented by the Project Charter and approved by both James Gill and Paul Armstrong.2. All changes to project scope are to be managed through the DePICT® Scope Change Management process and approved per sign-off by both …  Any changes impacting the go-live date or over 10% of budget must be approved per sign-off by …3. Project reporting and formal communication to all relevant stakeholders will be the responsibility of the DHL Project Manager via the development and implementation of a Communications Plan.4. On-going Issues Management utilizing the Issues Log will be maintained by the … Red issues are to be escalated to … within 4 hours if unresolved.  5. On-going Risk Management utilizing the Risk Assessment & Log will be maintained by the …  Red severity risks are to be escalated to …6. An end-of-project meeting will be held to formally accept the completion of the project per sign-off of the Customer Acceptance Form by both … 7. This project will be managed by the Planview Project Database and <Planview ID> in accordance to Regional guidelines (if applicable)Risk Summary/Mitigation Measures: The risks and mitigations are described as follows:-Attachments: Approvals: (Copy from Header.  Obtain approval to be considered Project Initiation completed) Role & NameSignature & DateCustomer:Project Sponsor:Project Owner:160930 DE10 - <Project Name> CHARTER_v.03	Page 1 of 10	© Copyright 1998 DP DHL		DHL Proprietary and Confidential